the year is 2160 the place
the pacific ocean off the coast of japan
the ocean seems calm at least the
surface does
the ocean floor is cracking right now
boom
the earth opens up magma shoots out the
crack in the ocean floor triggers an
earthquake
and a massive amount of energy shoots
into the ocean
and now for gravity to get involved it
pulls the water down
and makes it move faster and faster it's
a tsunami
a wave as high as a skyscraper plows
toward tokyo at 500 miles per hour
that's millions of tons of water it
would be awesome to take a picture of it
but there's no
time to admire the power of nature the
tsunami's about to hit
tokyo bay the tsunami smashes ashore
and starts attacking the largest
structure on the planet the tokyo
pyramid metropolis
it's six thousand six hundred feet tall
that's
five times the height of the empire
state building
imagine if the entire population of
denver colorado lived and worked in one
building
the tokyo pyramid metropolis tpm can
handle 750
000 people at a time incredibly the
structure withstands the impact
and most of the tsunami's energy seems
to have just
disappeared this time engineering stands
up to nature
tpm was built by the shimizu corporation
which was founded
in 1804. the pyramid is the most stable
structure around
if you don't believe me go to egypt and
see the great pyramid of giza
it's lasted 4 500 years and it's still
going strong
the tpm is built on water and consists
of 204
individual pyramids they look like
bunches of grapes stacked on top of each
other
eight tears in all only in this case
each grape is the size
of a vegas casino the tpm's
actually hollow that's how it defends
itself against typhoons and tsunamis
it doesn't meet the wind and waves
head-on but lets all that energy
just pass right through it robots and
autonomous control systems run this
place
it runs on solar wind and wave energy
the pyramids are connected by passages
all in all
about 85 miles worth they connect
everything
and are maintained by ai that always
finds you the fastest way to get from
pyramid a
to pyramid b the tpa is
obviously the city of the future but
human tech isn't quite ready for it just
yet originally engineers decided to
install the pyramid on 36 columns
all dug into the ocean bed if you build
a pyramid that size out of steel and
concrete
you'd be looking at 50 million tons of
load press in on itself
the tpm would have collapsed under its
own weight and imploded into the ocean
they needed something a thousand times
lighter than concrete and stronger than
steel
so what's this futuristic material look
at this old guy
it's the first car on the planet with an
internal combustion engine
it hit the road in 1885 and this is the
first artificial satellite that humans
launched into space
it only took an evolutionary blip to go
from the first
horseless carriage to our first flight
into space
that tpm's not looking so ridiculous hey
we can do anything the solution is
carbon and it's everywhere it's the rod
in your pencil
and the diamond in your crown or ring or
industrial drill
but we don't just need ordinary carbon
we need
graphene it's a type of carbon we can
make nanotubes out of
they're thinner than a human hair but
400 times stronger than steel
and most importantly they're light
nanotubes aren't affected by chemicals
oxygen or water perfect for the tpm
that's just a fancy way of saying the
thing's not gonna rust
chimzoo has plans for a power station on
the moon
an underwater city transforming the
sahara desert into a huge oasis
and much more but they aren't the only
ones changing the planet
the netherlands is the size of two new
jerseys
and about 30 percent of it is below sea
level to protect their country from
water
the dutch built dams lots of them
but that's just defense in 1986
they decided to go on offense and take
back some of the land from the sea
the first dam was 19 miles long
it basically turned a bay into a lake
the second dam
sealed the deal after 42 years of work
the netherlands got itself a whole new
province
larger than los angeles humans have done
the same thing
all over the world like in hong kong the
philippines italy
hey take that water
[Music]
what about building stuff on land that's
already land
before nasa's missions to mars the most
expensive project in history
was the construction of the interstate
highway system in the united states
it took about 35 years to finish
in today's money it cost about 530
billion dollars
all that cash bought 46 000 miles of
road
that's almost two times around the globe
there are over 270 million vehicles in
the us
more than japan brazil india and germany
combined
but in terms of sheer effort the roads
of rome were way more impressive
over two thousand years before the first
automobile
the romans built a huge network of roads
fifty thousand miles long
they connected ireland with egypt and
turkey was spain
the roads were pretty safe and travelers
could stay in hotels
dining cafes or mail a letter at the
nearest post office
[Music]
only about 30 percent of the earth's
surface is land
the world's oceans rivers and lakes are
full of life
and it seemed like a ridiculous task to
catalog everything living in there
but 2 700 scientists from 80 countries
decided to team up to do it the cost
650 million dollars those scientists
spend
10 years searching for old and new
species it was one of the biggest
science projects ever attempted
they even discovered about 6 000 new
species of fish
squid and algae
the great wall of china is huge thirteen
thousand miles of walls
natural barriers and trenches that's
about two times the distance from alaska
to australia
they built it over a period of 2 000
years with no trucks bulldozers
electricity
just raw people power modern china is
not exactly dropping the ball in two
years
china used more concrete for
construction than the u.s
ever did i mean ever roads cities
airports
everything there is huge the three
gorgeous dam
is definitely the new great wall of
china over 7 600 feet long
and 600 feet high you're looking at
three times more concrete and steel
than the hoover dam it's the largest
concrete structure in the world
and cost about 37 billion dollars more
than a million people had to pack up and
move to make way for it
switzerland has the longest and deepest
railway tunnel on the planet
under the snowy alps builders dug 35
miles of tunnels
every day 200 freight and passenger
trains pass through it
the amount of rock they took out to make
the tunnel is about the same as five
great pyramids
the whole thing cost about 12 billion
dollars
egypt's one of the oldest nations on the
planet but now they're building one of
the newest cities
it's going to be about the size of
singapore and filled with six
million lucky people there's going to be
apartments
government buildings entertainment even
an opera house
oh and a park that'll make central park
look like someone's backyard
when it's finished it'll be egypt's new
capital
so why bother well by 2050
cairo is going to have about 40 million
people in it
looks like they'll need more than one
new city
the first flights to the moon cost about
280 billion dollars in today's money
but spacex isn't letting price get in
its way
the company plans to build a colony on
mars with a population of one million by
twenty fifty
they claim that once the program starts
you'll be able to buy a ticket to mars
for as little as one hundred thousand
dollars but the biggest science project
ever
is definitely the international space
station it weighs as much as two boeing
747s
and zooms through space at the speed of
seventeen
thousand five hundred miles per hour
that pencils out to be five
miles per second the station orbits the
earth 16 times per day
and it doesn't come cheap luckily a
whole bunch of countries share the bill
but it's definitely the most expensive
room service anywhere in the galaxy
it costs ten thousand dollars to deliver
a bottle of water
from earth to the space station hey at
that price
i think it's important to ask sparkling
or still